h2. FBGRaph

p. Facebook Open Graph API Gem for Rails 3.


h2. Resources

* "View RDoc on RDoc.info":http://rdoc.info/projects/nsanta/fbgraph

* "View Source on GitHub":http://github.com/nsanta/fbgraph

* "Report Issues on GitHub":http://github.com/nsanta/fbgraph/issues


h2. Installation

notextile. <code> gem install fbgraph</code>

p. Be sure to require it

notextile. <code>require "fbgraph"</code>

p. or add this line into Gemfile for Rails 3

notextile. <code>gem "fbgraph"</code>


h2. Example Apps

"Rails 3 Example":http://github.com/nsanta/fbgraph_example

h2. Usage

p. FBGraph supports the most (no analytics yet) features of Facebook Open Graph API: developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/api/

**IMPORTANT!!**  Facebook object IDs can be very large numbers--too large to fit in a regular SQL "INTEGER" column.  If you use an integer column, your database will likely just store the largest number allowed resulting in a bug that may confound you beyond belief.

**IF YOU PLAN TO STORE FACEBOOK GRAPH OBJECT IDS IN YOUR DATABASE, YOU MUST USE A BIGINT COLUMN, NOT A STANDARD INTEGER COLUMN!**

h3. Initialization

p. Without a token (for authorization)

notextile. <code>client = FBGraph::Client.new(:client_id => 'client_id',:secret_id =>'secret_id')</code>

p. With a token

notextile. <code>client = FBGraph::Client.new(:client_id => 'client_id',:secret_id =>'secret_id' ,:token => token)</code>

p. All methods are chainable

Examples:

notextile. <code>client.selection.me.photos.until(Time.now.to_s).since(3.days.ago).limit(10).info!</code>

notextile. <code>client.selection.user('id').videos.offset(10).info!</code>

notextile. <code>client.search.query('q').on('users').limit(20).info!</code>

h3. Rails config file

h2. TODO

h3. Authorization

h4. client.authorization.authorize_url

p. returns the authorize url

notextile. <code> redirect_to client.authorization.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => callback_url , :scope => 'email,user_photos,friends_photos')</code>

h4. client.authorization.process_callback

p. process the callback and returns the access token

notextile. <code> access_token = client.authorization.process_callback(params[:code], :redirect_uri => callback_url)</code>

h3. Exchange Sessions

h2. TODO

h3. Canvas

Facebook send a segned_request as a parameter. Can be decoded with the method parse_signed_request of FBGraph::Canvas module

> FBGraph::Canvas.parse_signed_request(params[:signed_request])

h3. Selection

h4. Accessing objects with connection types.

p. All objects and their connections can be accesed

Examples:

notextile. <code> client.selection.me.home.info!</code>

notextile. <code> client.selection.user('id').photos.info!</code>

notextile. <code> client.selection.photo('id').comments.info!</code>

notextile. <code> client.selection.page('id').info!</code>

p. Also you can get results of more than 1 objects

Example:

notextile. <code> client.selection.user([id1,id2,id3]).info!</code>


h4. client.selection.info!

p. request with GET for information and return the response parsed with JSON. You can disable the parsing passing false as a first and unique parameter

notextile. <code> user_info = client.selection.me.info! </code>


h3. Publishing

h4. client.selection.publish!

p. request with POST for publishing and return the response parsed with JSON. You can disable the parsing passing false as a first and unique parameter

notextile. <code> client.selection.post('id').comments.params(:message => 'comment test').publish! </code>

p. OR

notextile. <code> client.selection.post('id').comments.publish!(:message => 'comment test') </code>


h3. Deletion

h4. client.selection.delete!

p. request with DELETE for deletion and return the response parsed with JSON. You can disable the parsing passing false as a first and unique parameter

notextile. <code> client.selection.post('id').delete!</code>


h3. Picture


h4. client.selection.picture

p. return the url of the object picture

notextile. <code> client.selection.me.picture </code>


h3. Paging

h4. client.selection.limit


notextile. <code> client.selection.me.photos.limit(3).info! </code>

h4. client.selection.offset


notextile. <code> client.selection.me.photos.offset(10).info! </code>

h4. client.selection.until


notextile. <code> client.selection.me.photos.until(Time.now.to_s).info! </code>

h4. client.selection.since


notextile. <code> client.selection.me.photos.since(3.days.ago).info! </code>


h3. Search

h4. client.search.query('query').info!

p.  Get the search results 

notextile. <code> results = client.search.query('facebook').info! </code>


h4. client.search.query('query')on('type').info!

p.  Get the search results by type

notextile. <code> results = client.search.query('facebook').on('home').info! </code>

h3. RealTime Updates

h4. client.realtime.user

h4. client.realtime.permissions

h4. client.realtime.errors

p. Set the object to be subscribed, modified or unsubscribed

h4. client.realtime.fields('email,picture')

p. Set the objects fields 


h4. client.realtime.callback_url(url)

p. Set the callback url


h4. client.realtime.verify_token(token)

p. Set the verify token (optional)

h4. client.realtime.subscribe!

p. Send the request for add/modify a subscription for realtime Updates.


Examples:

notextile. <code> results = client.realtime.user.fields('email,picture').callback_url(url).verify_token('token').subscribe! </code>

notextile. <code> results = client.realtime.permissions.fields('read_stream').callback_url(url).subscribe! </code>

If you want delete a subscirpition, you can use the delete! method.

Examples:

notextile. <code> results = client.realtime.user.delete!</code>


h3. Analytics

h4. TODO

h3. Advanced

h4. not documented yet


h2 Credits

Examples:

notextile. <code> results = client.selection.user(USER_ID).payments.info!(:status => STATUS). </code>

notextile. <code> results = client.selection.order(ORDER_ID).publish!(:status => STATUS) </code>  


h2. Contributions

p. Just do a pull request with the repo in sync.



h2. Maintainers

"Nicolas Santa":http://github.com/nsanta

"Matt Lightner (via RedRadiant)":http://github.com/redradiant

h2. Contributors List

"Victor Costan":http://github.com/costan

"Mark Bates":http://github.com/markbates

"Florent Guilleux":http://github.com/Florent2

"Jan De Poorter":http://github.com/DefV

"Thilo-Alexander Ginkel":http://github.com/ginkel

"Matias Käkelä":http://github.com/massive


